Sentiment analysis is a one of the many utilities of Natural Language Processing (NLP) which deals with understanding the emotional tone or polarity of a piece of textual content. The primary goal is to identify the underlying sentiment of the author of that piece of text, whether it is positive, negative, or neutral. One of the major real-world applications of sentiment analysis is social media monitoring, where we are concerned with the emotional nature of comments, tweets, or posts that users interacting with these social media websites propagate. 
With the advent of social media, people across the globe have found a platform to connect, share, and communicate. However, with all the benefits that social media has bestowed upon us over the past decade, it has also experienced an extremely dark side. Social media toxicity refers to the malignant, malicious, and vile behaviour that users exhibit on social media platforms. Some common forms of toxic actions by users include cyberbullying, harassment, hate speech, trolling, and spreading misinformation. According to a report by the Pew Research Center, around 41% of Americans have experienced online harassment, with women and minorities being more likely to experience harassment than men.
The impact on a person’s mental health due to the anxiety, stress, and depression induced due to social media toxicity is cathartic. A 2019 study published in the journal Social Science & Medicine found that individuals who experience online harassment are more likely to develop symptoms of depression and anxiety than those who do not experience such harassment. Additionally, exposure to hate speech and negative comments can lead to feelings of loneliness and isolation. 
Keeping in mind the indispensable utility of social media in driving a myriad of businesses across the world, we are left with no choice but to find the best way to monitor activities of users on social media platforms and flag all the potential activities which may lead to the deterioration of one’s mental health due to the exiguous and petrifying intent embedded beneath these activities.
